Update dependency concurrently to v6.2.2 (#548)
ocaml/v3.ocaml.org: data/tutorials/gs_00_up_and_running.md

Please note that the installer is a work in progress and might not work on your system.

OCaml is available as a package in most Linux distributions; however, it is
often outdated. On the contrary, OCaml's official package manager, opam, allows you to
easily switch between OCaml versions and much more. This is
especially useful since different projects might require different versions of
OCaml.

The best way to install OCaml is with opam.

> If you're new to the Command Line Interface (CLI), the code blocks (in black) show the required commands. Type each command after the prompt $, although it's often represented by a %, >, or another symbol on your local machine. Ensure you use the exact case and spacing shown, then hit return/enter at the end of every line. The text after # gives more information on the following commands.

Reviewer: I am not sure if this line is necessary: if someone is new to the CLI, the paragraph does not explain enough (such as: where to type the command? What is a prompt? What is an environment variable that we speak about later?).

I think most of the people reading this already know about the `$` convention.

Finally, I think the comment is a little bit misplaced, I would put a much shorter version of it (with a link/pointer to a good resource on this) just before the first code block.

Reviewer: Maybe we can take inspiration on [this PR](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml.org/pull/539/files#diff-44f515a168909c4a0e9f01572c33dca592a072b7b75cff4671730b2bdcc7497fR16-R23)

Reviewer 2: That's a good idea! Thanks for the suggestion.

Reviewer 2: It looks like that PR is for the main branch. Will that be addressed there or should we incorporate their suggestions here?

Reviewer: I will ask!

### Installing opam

Alternatively, you can use the alpha-version platform installer to install opam and the development tools, [see below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer).

> [opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/) introduces the concept of "switches," consisting of a compiler together with a set of packages (libraries and other files). Switches are used to have independent sets of dependencies in different projects.

Reviewer: Why removing the fact that it is the package manager of ocaml? 
```suggestion
[opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/) is the package manager of OCaml. It additionally introduces the concept of "switches," consisting of a compiler together with a set of packages (libraries and other files). Switches are used to have independent sets of dependencies in different projects.
```

Reviewer 2: I suggested removing it here because it's defined earlier in the document, but we can repeat it here if you prefer.

Reviewer: Good point, sorry I forgot it was mentioned earlier! I would say it is nice to repeat it, but I agree that it is also fine without repeating it.

Reviewer 2: It might be good to repeat it since it's targeted for new people, then they don't have to scan back up to see what it is!

After having installed opam, you will need to initialise it, [see below](#initialize-opam).

To install opam, you can [use your system package manager](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html#Using-your-distribution-39-s-package-system) or download the [binary distribution](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html#Binary-distribution). The details are available in the above links, but for convenience, we copy a few of them here: 

**For macOS**

```shell
# With Homebrew:
$ brew install opam

# With MacPort:
$ port install opam
```

`# Homebrew` indicates the command if you're using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) as the installer, and `# MacPorts` is if you're using [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/) to install.

> 

Reviewer: This seems a bit needlessly duplicating the information. I think it would be better like this:
«

If you are using Homebrew:
```shell
 $ brew install opam
```
or if you are using Macport:

```shell
$ brew install opam
```
»

Reviewer 2: Good idea! Done!

**For Linux**

The preferred way to install opam is with your system's package manager on
Linux (e.g., `apt-get install opam` or similar). [Details of all installation

> methods.](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html)

Reviewer: I am not sure if it is the preferred way: you don't get the latest version. Moreover, we did not say it is the preferred way for Mac, neither on line [45/47](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml.org/pull/548/files#diff-44f515a168909c4a0e9f01572c33dca592a072b7b75cff4671730b2bdcc7497fR47)

Reviewer 2: How about "It's easy to install opam with your system's package manager..."

Reviewer: That's perfect!

Reviewer 2: Done!

```shell
# Ubuntu
$ add-apt-repository ppa:avsm/ppa
$ apt update
$ apt install opam

# Archlinux
$ pacman -S opam

# Debian (stable, testing and unstable)
$ apt-get install opam
```

**Binary Distribution**

```shell
$ bash -c "sh <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.sh)"
```

### Initialising opam

> It's essential to both initialise opam and install the OCaml compiler because OCaml is a compiled language, so please don't skip this section. 

Reviewer: I don't think opam needs to be initialised has something to do with ocaml being a compiled language... Moreover I don't think any section should be skipped. So I would remove this line.

Reviewer 2: I put this in there because it didn't work for me without this step. 
I can see how the sentence construction is confusing though.

Reviewer: Yes, it is indeed necessary to initialize opam! However, I think it is confused to say that it is because OCaml is a compiled language.

How about:
```markdown
It is essential to initialize `opam` (which creates a new switch, installing OCaml if needed) to be able to use it, so do not skip this section!
```
although I find it strange to ask not to skip the section, as I think no section should be skipped!

Reviewer 2: Agreed! I can remove that if you'd like.

Reviewer 2: Yesterday I reworded it like this: It's essential to both initialise `opam` and, because OCaml is a compiled language, install the OCaml compiler.  (today I removed the "skip this section" part)

Does this work for you?

Reviewer: There are two things that bother me in your formulation!
- First, the "both" and "and" words seem to suggest that there are two things to do: initialize `opam` and install the OCaml compiler. In fact, there is only one thing to do: initialize `opam`, which will, _if needed_, install an OCaml compiler. But it will use the already installed compiler if it finds it.
- Also, the "because OCaml is a compiled language" seems off here. I don't really see the causal link here!

So I would remove the "because OCaml is a compiled language", and make it clear that there is only one thing to do: initiliaze opam, and that as a consequence of the initialization, it installs the OCaml compiler.

An example of a sentence satisfying (I think!) this specification is:
> It is essential to initialize `opam` (which will install OCaml if needed) to be able to use it.

Reviewer 2: Ah! I got it! It's the same thing! Okay, thanks!

This step is done automatically by the alpha-version platform installer, [see below](#up-and-running-with-the-platform-installer).

If you have installed the binary distribution of opam through the install script, this step should already be done. If you have installed it through your system package manager, you must initialise opam by running the following command:

```shell
$ opam init          # Can take some time
$ eval $(opam env)
```

> The first command (`opam init`) creates a first switch, usually called `default`, although this is just a convention. (`switch` is used to have several installations on disk, like packages, compiler version, etc.) If you have installed OCaml through your system package manager, the first switch will be set up to use this compiler (it is called a "system switch"). Otherwise, it will build one from source, usually taking the most recent version of OCaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first command (`opam init`) initializes the opam state (stored in a the hidden folder `.opam` in your home directory), as well as creates a first switch, usually called `default`, although this is just a convention. A switch is an independent OCaml environment with its own OCaml compiler, and a set of libraries and binaries. If you have installed OCaml through your system package manager, the first switch will be set up to use this compiler (it is called a "system switch"). Otherwise, it will build one from source, usually taking the most recent version of OCaml.

At the end of the `opam init`, you are asked if you want to add a hook to your shell to best integrate with your system. Indeed, in order for the shell to be aware of the tools available in the current opam switch, a few environments variables need to be modified. For instance, the `PATH` variable has to be expanded so that typing `ocaml` in the shell runs the OCaml binary _of the current switch_. Answering `y` will provide a better user experience.
```

eval $(opam env)
```shell
$ opam init          # Can take some time
$ eval $(opam env)
```

The first command (`opam init`) creates a first switch, usually called `default`, although this is just a convention. If you have installed OCaml through your system package manager, the first switch will be set up to use this compiler (it is called a "system switch"). Otherwise, it will build one from source, usually taking the most recent version of OCaml.
The first command (`opam init`) creates a first switch, usually called `default`, although this is just a convention. (`switch` is used to have several installations on disk, like packages, compiler version, etc.) If you have installed OCaml through your system package manager, the first switch will be set up to use this compiler (it is called a "system switch"). Otherwise, it will build one from source, usually taking the most recent version of OCaml.

The second command (`eval $(opam env)`) modifies a few environments variables to make the shell aware of the switch you are using. For instance, it will add what is needed to the `PATH` variable so that typing `ocaml` in the shell runs the OCaml binary of the current switch.

> In case you are not satisfied with the OCaml version of your system switch, you can write the following commands to create a new switch with a recent version of OCaml:

Reviewer: Why did you remove this? I think it is worth it specifying that we not always want to create a new switch, only if we want a specific version of OCaml. (it is quite long to create a new switch)

Reviewer 2: Good suggestion. Does changing the Install Compiler section to Creating a New Switch along with your other suggestion of adding "If you want a specific version of OCaml..." solve this problem?

Reviewer: Yes, I think it solves the problem!

Reviewer 2: Great! Thanks for the feedback!

> **Please note:** After the `opam init` command, you might get a result asking if you'd like to update your `zsh` configuration. If you get that message, type in `N`, the default, then type `y` to install the hook, which will run `eval $(opam env)`. As you get more well-versed in OCaml, you can change these settings by rerunning `opam init`.

Reviewer: I included an explanation on this in my previous suggestion (I think it is better grouping info on `opam init` and only after info on `eval $(opam env)`)

Reviewer: I think this sentence should be change for different reasons:
- Not everyone has `zsh`, the prompt will be different depending on the shell (`zsh`, `bash`, ...) of the user. So we should not specify it!
- It is a bit confusing that to answer "yes" to a single question, the user has to type twice a letter, and even more that it starts with N for No when we want to answer Yes! I think that's a mistake: only `y` has to be typed.
- It is better to explain what it does than saying: type this, then type that...

So, I suggested this modificatio in https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml.org/pull/548#discussion_r951183090 :

```suggestion
At the end of the `opam init`, you are asked if you want to add a hook to your shell to best integrate with your system. Indeed, in order for the shell to be aware of the tools available in the current opam switch, a few environments variables need to be modified. For instance, the `PATH` variable has to be expanded so that typing `ocaml` in the shell runs the OCaml binary _of the current switch_. Answering `y` will provide a better user experience.
```

> Now check the installation by running `opam --version`. The current version is 2.1.2. Please note merely using `opam init` might install a previous version of opam. If you have a previous version, please refer to [the opam Upgrade Guide](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Upgrade_guide.html).

Reviewer: I would not specify the current version, otherwise the guide will become out of date at each opam release... Moreover, if opam is installed with the package system, it won't be this version.

Reviewer 2: That's a good point.

> ### Install Compiler 

Reviewer: I think it is confusing as OCaml has already been installed, by opam init or the system package manager.
```suggestion
### Creating a new switch
```

> Next, we'll install the OCaml base compiler, which uses the `opam switch create` command. Specify which version as shown below (i.e., `opam switch create 5.0.0~alpha1`). All possible compiler versions can be found with `opam switch list-available`. The most current version can be found at [opam.ocaml.org](https://opam.ocaml.org/packages/ocaml-base-compiler/).

Reviewer: I think it is confusing as OCaml has already been installed, by `opam init` or the system package manager. We need to say "if we want a specific version, (or a new independent environment), we can create a new switch with the `opam switch create` command. [...]"

Reviewer 2: Done!

> $ opam switch create 5.0.0~alpha1

Reviewer: When this doc makes it into the website, ocaml 5 will be released, no?

Reviewer 2: I think it will be. Should that just be 5.0.0 then?

Reviewer: I... guess? (but only time will tell!)

Reviewer 2: 😂  .... I changed them to 5.0.0 for now

**For macOS**

If you're installing with [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/): 

```shell
# With Homebrew:
$ brew install opam
```

Or if you're using [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/):

```shell
# With MacPort:
$ port install opam
```

**For Linux**

> The preferred way to install opam is with your system's package manager on

Reviewer: Suggestion:
```markdown
The easiest way to install opam is with your system's package manager on Linux (e.g., `apt-get install opam` or similar). [Details of all installation methods.](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html). Depending on your package manager, you won't get the latest release of opam. If you want the latest release, consider installing it though the binary distribution. 
```

And in `**Binary Distribution*`:

```markdown
This method will fetch and initialize the latest version of opam, directly from the official servers:
```

Reviewer 2: Done (I think) 🙂

**Please note:** After the `opam init` command, you might get a result asking if you'd like to update your `zsh` configuration. If you get that message, type in `N`, the default, then type `y` to install the hook, which will run `eval $(opam env)`. As you get more well-versed in OCaml, you can change these settings by rerunning `opam init`.

> Now check the installation by running `opam --version`. You can check if it's the current version on [opam.ocaml.org](https://opam.ocaml.org/). Please note merely using `opam init` might install a previous version of opam. If you have a previous version, please refer to [the opam Upgrade Guide](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Upgrade_guide.html).

Reviewer: In fact, this line should be moved at the end of the `Installing opam` section. Indeed, it is for checking if opam has been installed, not for checking if it has been _initialized_. Moreover, it is normal not to have the latest released version of opam if it has been installed through the package manager, and the opam Upgrade Guide would not really help here...

```suggestion
Now check the installation by running `opam --version`. You can compare it with the latest released version on [opam.ocaml.org](https://opam.ocaml.org/).
```

Reviewer 2: Both these sentence should be moved to `Installing opam` or just the second one?

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the clarifications in Slack. Done!

![Visual Studio Code](/media/tutorials/vscode.png)

**For Vim and Emacs** we won't use the LSP server but rather directly talk to Merlin.

When we installed Merlin above, instructions were printed on how to link Merlin with your editor. If you do not have them visible, the short way is just to run:

```shell
$ opam user-setup install
```

## Starting a New Project

Let's begin the simplest project with Dune and OCaml, "Hello World," just to see how it works. 
Navigate into a practice directory, as we'll be creating new projects below. 

First, we ask `dune` to
initialize a new project, and then change into the created directory. As usual, 
the line beneath the command is the desired output:

```shell
$ dune init project helloworld
Success: initialized project component named helloworld
$ cd helloworld
```

All the metadata of your project is available in the file `dune-project`. Edit it to match your specific project.

We can build our program with `dune build`, which creates an executable file:

```shell
$ dune build
```

When we change our program, we can type `dune build` again to make a new
executable. To run the program, we can use:

```shell

> $ dune exec /bin/main.exe

Reviewer: For me, it worked with the `./` (and it should work!). However, `dune exec /bin/main.exe` definitely should not work and would output `Error: Program "/bin/main.exe" not found!`!

Let's remove the useless `./`:
```suggestion
$ dune exec bin/main.exe
```
